The Joe Rogan experience.
You're just used to things that are less comfortable than most,
I think perhaps cozy in your perspective, you know, but I get it. Yeah.
Yeah. But this, uh, ice hotel, my friend who stayed,
I can't remember who told me they stayed in it.
They did it one night just to say they did it. They were at their kids too. Uh.
Sounds like David bla.
Then I think blame classic. You're right. I think you, I know David. Yeah.
He's great. Yeah, dude.
Yeah. He, he, for him and ice hotels, like a normal thing,
he's like he probably just lay there on the ice the whole time, just to,
just to see if he just.
To see if he could, he's a strange person, right.
<laugh> strange and powerful at the same time. Like a very unusual human being.
Dude. I, uh, I met with him years ago now because he was,
did you see his like real or magic documentary? No, it's really good.
I would totally encourage you to watch it,
but basically it's all these like sort of magic tricks except they aren't
actually tricks. They're just like I'm allowed to curse, right? Yeah. Yeah.
That's they're like these up things that he does that people assume must be
magic, but aren't like, he puts an ice pick through his hand bunch, bunch. I.
Put an ice pick through his.
Arm. Oh, whether you go, that's like the same kind of like he made me. Yeah,
exactly.
I'm like, come on, man. What are we doing here?
Exactly. That. No, exactly. And you're like, you're like, you hope it's a trick,
but it's yeah, exactly. Look at you dude. Exactly. Dude.
He bought me an iPhone randomly. He, uh, it was one of those classic things. He,
uh, I forget he, yeah. So I, in New York for the thing for real magic, cuz uh,
he was talking about maybe doing a climbing thing and I was totally into
teaching him how to climb the outside of a building basical.
Cause it was one of those things that people would assume there's a trick to it.
But it's,
in some ways it's actually easier just to learn how to do it well enough that
you can just do it rather than do a trick. You know what I mean? Like mm-hmm,
<affirmative> because that's kind of the whole thing with the ice.
As people assume there must be a trick to it,
but you actually just do this crazy thing. You just learn how to do it. Right.
Right. And so, so I went climbing with him a few times and he like, you know,
gave me a tour around town and we chat and stuff. I don't know.
I was totally into his whole scene. I was like such mind over matter, you know,
I was like, wow. He,
he has got a strong mind for just like making himself do things that other
people would are impossible slash.
Yeah. It's just too unpleasant. Mostly his mind,
mostly the ability to deal with uncomfortable feelings. Yeah.
Like the ice picked through the arm, dude.
Like we had a stop cuz I hit a nerve and then we did it again.
So it hit a nerve. And then there was one point in time where after we did it,
he was concerned that maybe blood was Ling up in a weird way.
So he had our medic look at it. So he, he, we stopped twice. Right.
We stopped once and I put it back in again and then we go all the way
through and then after it came out, we had to stop again.
And then one of our guys had to look at it cuz it was just bleeding in a weird
way. It was worried. That was creating a hematoma could be.
Oh, like, come on, man. Uh, if you ever watch the, the show, you know,
real or magic, whatever mm-hmm, <affirmative>, it's, it's really good.
But in one of 'em like he puts the ice pick through his hand and,
and then he pulls it out and he's like, look, see, it's fine. And it's like,
and it looks totally fine. Like it's not bleeding,
you know it's cuz your hand is so elastic or whatever mm-hmm <affirmative>.
But I asked him about it, you know, I was like, oh what's the deal with that?
Cause you pull out, you know, it's like, is it a trick? And he's like, no,
you pull it out. And as long as you're holding your hand above your heart,
it doesn't bleed for a little bit. He's like, then when you put your hand down,
obviously it bleeds. Cause you have to hold through your hand. I was like,
oh Jesus. Like I was like, that's not a much of a trick. That's that's.
Messed up.
But one of the things that he showed us was there was a guy that was famous back
in the day for putting swords through his body.
The guy would run like the whole way.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> the whole way through like a organs really narrow sword.
Yeah. A small, but they got progressively larger as he more, he.
Got progressively debtor <laugh>.
Is that how he died? Do you remember Jamie? I, I.
Feel like that's how it ended up going. He got.
Yes. He.
Got cocky I think. Or he,
he sneezed halfway through and just like lacerated eventually.
Made his way to like a broad sword size.
<laugh> it was really weird to see though,
because there's video of this guy and there's photos video. Is there video?
I got video over here's yeah.
This I slid like right through his organs. Oh geez. Yeah.
So look at this.
Oh geez.
I mean they just puncture his lung with a sword.
I mean, this is not a.
Trick.
This is when you watch action movies and people get shot or stabbed a bunch of
times and you're like, that's so unrealistic. He'd be like,
when you watch on WIC, you know, and he gets shot like 27 times.
Like apparently people can actually, uh,
take quite a beating and just keep going.
Or they can get one look they're going right through this.
Right through his eye. Yeah. Oh my Jesus. Right to his or,
and look how he just sat, sits there. I guess.
Who's who's his doctor. Who's like good enough to poke a sword.
He's.
Not really a doctor. Well, but he must be a like, he'd be an incredible, uh,
maybe he works in a deli, you know like a really, really good Jamie.
Say what? He uses
47 now what are the things on his forearms by the way? Oh,
so now he's going into an x-ray machine to make sure that,
so this guy had scars all over his body from the times that he did this
dude. Yeah. Yikes. That's a,
fairly thick blade.
Like definitely bigger than a pencil that the doctor's
examining. It looks good. And now he's going to eat except.
It's all gonna fall out the.
Hole. Yeah. It's gonna S score it out. That's a hard looking man.
Imagine having a conversation that dude,
I bet he had is a very weird way of looking at things, dude. <laugh>.
You died at 36.
That guy looked, oh, well, there you go.
He looked like he 50 already fill holes.
I wonder. Know how painful that is. I mean, it's gotta be pretty painful.
Painful.
Yeah. You would assume. How could it not be? Yeah. Yeah.
No piercing your ears painful.
I've no priest murder too afraid. That's a.
You're too.
Afraid of this. You're here. Well, no, I just don't wanna hold in my ear. So.
Did he die from that? Jamie? I'm double checking on how he.
Died. Yeah. Uh,
you need like a team of researchers and you're just like pulling up, uh, like,
yeah, checking fast.
I know it's all Jamie one handed Googling.
Yeah. Like a wizard.
He moved to Switzerland and was granted a license to perform without the ability
to speak to the public. I don't know. That sounds strange.
A license to perform without the ability to, oh, maybe like if you performed,
you had to talk to people.
Like they had mines back then though. No, maybe.
You had a break character. I know.
Mad at you, but that seems like, so maybe he couldn't say that he got,
he was like Al it hurts. And they're like, I don't know. Like
it's just so silly to even have.
To, to be fair.
The act is less inspiring if the guy screams in pain the whole time.
Cause then nobody wants to watch, right?
Yeah. I mean the same guy doing the same thing, screaming like,
like he's being tortured.
That would be sad. I mean, it'd be the same for David Blaine.
Like when you watch the David stuff, it's like,
if you were putting ice pick through his arm and he was just SCR,
like if he was just sobbing the whole time, you'd be like,
I don't wanna watch this. I.
Wouldn't do it. It's a.
Stop. It says in 1948, he was alleged.
He was instructed by voices to eat a steel needle.
And two days later it was surgically removed. I don't know. I,
I think he got.
Cocky. It's fair to say that he might have weird things going on. Yeah.
Yeah.
He was probably trying to kill himself and couldn't believe he kept surviving.
<Laugh> yeah, he was laying on a bed. They didn't think,
I guess they didn't know he was dead.
And then they finally got a doctor to check him.
Turns out he'd already been dead for a day. <laugh> yeah,
it sounds a Jesus Christ.
We, we need like three more, uh, research interns,
like Googling his whole scene as fast they get. Cause they're like, wait,
none of that Meg said, he said, and this.
Was because of swallowing a needle. Mm-hmm.
<Affirmative> said he had, he thought he had guardian angels.
He said he was telepathic. He could heal people. Yeah.
Yeah, no, he didn't heal himself very well. Maybe he did.
That's how he survived. So when he's, you know, being impaled so many times, I.
I guess you can just do it though. It can be done, you know,
cuz they they're fairly small holes.
Although they do go through the length of your entire body.
It's I mean, you just think you'd get infected with, I.
Think that's part of, part of what that video was, was improving the doctors.
It wasn't all fake and that's because that's what it says.
He proved to Zurich doctors that it wasn't his act wasn't based on fakey.
That's.
Probably why don't I get so uncomfortable just talking about this I'm so I'm
breathing heavy.
I'm like, woo. Maybe you need to practice a little bit.
You have somebody start putting needles through like little parts of your arm,
you know, like just.
There's just something and weird about people that are willingly hurting
themselves and causing themselves.
Pain. No, I, I kind of agree with that. I do. I do find it slightly,
but David very well adjusted, man. It seems very welled, very friendly,
you know, super guy.
Like, and his car tricks are legitimately blowing.
Dude. So fun fact about his car tricks. I don't know if he'd be so he,
he took me to lunch once and like did the whole thing in car tricks and I was
totally, I, I love magic and I think it's cool. And you know, I like,
obviously they're all tricks, but I was like, this is incredible.
The execution's incredible. I was totally into it. I was super impressed.
And then, uh, at the time I was,
I was dating this girl in New York really briefly. And um,
and a couple days later we all went to the climbing gym together.
Cause like I said, I was kind of encouraging him to like do some,
some climbing thing. And he,
then we went to lunch again and he basically did the same set of car tricks for
this girl that I was dating, but having already climbed for like an hour or two.
And it was funny because his execution in the car tricks was noticeably worse
for me. Like, you know,
I could tell that he was like doing all his tricks worse once his arms were like
totally wrecked from climbing for two hours,
like basically his fingers and his forearm are totally wrecked.
And that actually made me appreciate how difficult the tricks are even more.
Cause I was like, oh wow.
Like if your fingertips are hurt and your muscles are wrecked and it's hard for
you to hold your arms steady, then it's like very hard to fan the deck,
you know, evenly and to like pick cards properly.
And it made me appreciate just how much skill is involved and what he was doing.
I was like, ah, dude, it was, it was pretty cool. You know,
basically to see somebody do something at their peak and then when they're also
totally wrecked and then to see kind of the overlap, you're like,
oh this is actually quite hard. Like, what he's doing is, is, is a challenge.
You know, you.
Know what it's like? He's like,
he's the fine motor skills that we have for tying our own shoes.
Totally.
But for a deck of cards. Yeah. Yeah.
When he can just cut to the 27th card or whatever, you know, and he's like,
lemme just cut this deck. And he's like, oh there's card number 24.
And you're like really.
Can do that. Yeah. When in practice so many times that he has that,
you know that cuz there is that feeling that you have when you tie your shoe
where your hands just communicate. So fluidly,
you know like that's like what people strive for in jujitsu in jujitsu,
you strive like that's actually what my, uh, my coach, Eddie Bravo.
He uses that as, as an example, that when you tie your shoe,
you don't think about tying your shoe.
You just tie your shoe mm-hmm <affirmative> and in a certain situation you'll
flow into a technique, like a technique will happen and it'll it'll happen.
And cuz you, your, your repetitions you've hit this totally.
So many times it'll just be so fluid. And so for David, it's gotta be like that.
But with like the very tips of.
His fingers, I know for somebody like me with, you know, very callous,
I can't even imagine feeling anything that way, like honestly, Dex of cars,
I just crumple 'em all together. I'm just shoving. Like, is it shuffled?
You know, like I can't even manipulate 'em that. Well.
Yeah. I would imagine. Right? Like your hands have to be like super rough,
right?
Yeah. Normally pretty rough. And then also just really callous on the tip.
I mean often, you know,
I can pick up like hot things and like not really notice it quite the same way
or you know, things like that. Oh, of course. I mean,
if you're grabbing like grabbing fair course rock all the time,
it's like you have to wind up with really callous fingertips of course.
But so in something like manipulating the edge of a card, it's like,
I can't even imagine feeling it.
Catch new episodes. The Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost all for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the J on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.